--- 
layout: post 
title: Learning New Languages 
permalink: /post/924119210/learning-new-languages 
--- 

I always enjoy picking up a new programming language. There's something about
it that seems to turn on a different part of the brain that was lying dormant
before. It seems to be another outlet for the exploration of creative problem
solving. The problems remain the same, yet the approach changes a little bit.

With every new language it takes a while for the brain to adjust to the
syntax. Once it does, then things become a bit more natural. As I start to
figure out the basics of how certain structures and semantics are represented
in the language, I'm able to apply similar techniques to the problem at hand.
However, finding a good way to explore this has not always been a pleasant
experience.

An effective way of learning a new language is something I've struggled with.
I've always flailed here and there trying to create _test projects_ to learn
with. Most of the time I get so caught up in the details of what the project
should be that the primary objective of learning the language takes a back
seat. This has been very frustrating and counterproductive.

A year ago or so, I stumbled upon [Project Euler](http://projecteuler.net/), a
site that has a series of challenging programming problems, many of which are
mathematical in nature. This site is an amazing way to try out a new language
because it forces one to explore the basic elements of the language, with a
focused problem instead of a dreaded _test project_.

As a side, I've found that solving the problems in more than one language
really helps bring to surface the differences between the languages. For
instance, solving a long hand division problem will usually result in needing
to store string representations along the way. If one were to try and use
normal floating point operations on a problem like this, it would cause some
type of overflow. Doing this in c/c++ can be somewhat a pain, but in python is
trivial.

This has been my experience in picking up a new language and I would recommend
the method to others if asked.
