---
layout: post
title: Remote PowerShell
permalink: /post/3164605459/remote-powershell
---

<p>Let me start off by saying I&#8217;m just a another software developer that likes to get the most out of his tools/platform. Therefore, when I&#8217;m developing on a Windows platform I never leave home without <a href="http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/bb978526.aspx" target="_blank">PowerShell</a>. It&#8217;s so ridiculously delicious sometimes I slap myself in disbelief. With PowerShell v2 there were many improvements to an already excellent v1. One of which was <a href="http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/dd347744.aspx" target="_blank">Remote Commands</a> using <a href="http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/dd347706.aspx" target="_blank">Sessions</a>.</p>



<p>With this post, I&#8217;m definitely not going to go into details about Sessions as I really don&#8217;t get down that way. I&#8217;m also not here to convince anyone to use PowerShell, even if it&#8217;s the best shell I&#8217;ve come across on any platform. This post is simply being done to call attention to the PowerShell community leaders. You have an ace in your hand here and I&#8217;m not sure why people like me don&#8217;t know about it.</p>



<p>I use PowerShell for many development related task, many of which reside on remote machines. Since, for the most part Windows lacks a native remote shell environment (telnet, ssh, etc), I usually would terminal into the machine I needed to perform some tasks on, open up PowerShell and be one my way. This worked fine for the most part, but a developer can wish for more. What I really wanted was to be able to open up a telnet like session and run my commands.</p>



<p>I recently found that there is something similar. While it&#8217;s not a full on command terminal session (telnet) it is pretty darn useful and will help with a majority of the tasks I perform on remote machines.</p>



<blockquote>

  <p><a href="http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/dd315384.aspx" target="_blank">Enter-PSSession</a> -  Starts an interactive session with a remote computer.</p>

</blockquote>



<p>This translates to giving you an interactive prompt on the remote machine. Priceless!</p>



<p>I recognize that as a developer I might be a minority of the PowerShell user base and would imagine the IT crowd is the majority.  This could also be a case where I just missed the boat and the vast majority of the community already knows (AND uses) these Remote Sessions. I&#8217;m OK with that and thankful that I finally stumbled upon them as they will prove to save me many hours of work.</p>



<p>However, if this is the case where there might be more people like me out there that are oblivious to Remote Commands, I think the evangelists have an opportunity to fill that potential void, resulting in a happier, more productive <em>kid with a toy</em>.</p>



<hr><p><strong>Wish</strong> -&gt; I cannot seem to run an editor like <a href="http://www.vim.org" target="_blank">vim</a> in the session to edit files on the remote machine). This would be double awesome if made possible.</p>
