--- 
layout: post 
title: My Early Computing 
permalink: /post/4515633908/my-early-computing 
--- 

Recently I was [reminded](http://www.computerhistory.org/tdih/April/6/) about
some of my early computing adventures. While my earliest memories were that of
playing games on an my neighbor's Apple IIe, most of my early adolescence was
spent in front of an unknown AT&T PC running DOS. No, I don't remember
specifics on hardware or OS version.

Countless hours wer spent just messing with the thing, from both the hardware
and software side. I would break it to the point where it no longer would
boot, attempt to fix, fail at that, call technical support to get it fixed.
It's easy to say that I had no idea what I was doing, but enjoyed it. Pure
exploration… one of the few things in my early life that I did explore outside
of sports.

Athletics dominated the majority of my extra curricular activities growing up
and it wasn't until 10th grade when I embarked upon my first programming
class. Sports and general studies came easy to me. Programming, I had to work
at. I had to bend my mind in ways to make the computer do things I wasn't sure
how it might go about doing. I literally would spend hours trying to wrap my
head around loops so that I could alternate the red and white stripes of the
American flag as I flailed to draw it to the screen.

Programming was fun but wasn't something I dedicated too much time to outside
of class. However, it perked enough interest for me to apply to the Computer
Science Department at the University of Colorado. I remember looking down a
list of possible areas of study when applying and seeing the words "computer"
and "science" and then thinking to myself, "Hey, I like computers… and science
is pretty cool!"

I honestly had no clue what I was getting myself into at the time. The thought
of using programming to solve scientific problems didn't even cross my mind.
Yes, naive is an understatement. All I knew is that I wanted to do something
with computers. That was it. The rest I would figure out when I got there.
