---
layout: post
title: Desktop App Reversal
permalink: /post/16852632430/desktop-app-reversal
---

<p>Even though web applications are <em>taking over the world</em>, I&#8217;m still a fan of the native desktop application. They provide an authentic look/feel to the operating system that makes me feel special. While most of the native apps I use are developer tools, I also regularly use the following on both Windows 7 and Mac OS X:</p>

<ul><li>Evernote</li>

<li>Rdio </li>

<li>Skype</li>

</ul><p>It&#8217;s been my opinion that the PC version has always had a better experience when it came to native apps. However, I cannot say that for Evernote and Rdio. These applications are much better from a usability standpoint on the Mac. Skype is still an absolute disgrace on the Mac (comparatively to the PC version).</p>

<p>So why is it that 66% (yes I know&#8230; I have mass amounts of data for my study) of the applications I use have better Mac versions? As a programmer ten years ago, you built applications for the platform you most commonly used. Has anything changed? Probably&#8230; depending on how you look at it.</p>

<p>I would bet that programmers are still developing for and on the platform they most commonly use day-to-day. They are developing on the system that makes them feel special. However, I also guess many that were developing for the PC ten years ago may also be developing for multiple platforms now, like the Mac. Are they using a Mac at home too? Have they made a switch? Does your dog really know what your name is? </p>

<p>Are you paying attention? No? Well let me bring it back full circle.</p>

<p>All of this doesn&#8217;t much matter as in a few years we&#8217;ll all be developing off of machines that run in clouds that serve up rainbow lollypop browser versions of an IDE so we can program in a 6th order language.</p>

<p>For craps sake man. Wake up. </p>
