--- 
layout: post 
title: Desktop App Reversal 
permalink: /post/16852632430/desktop-app-reversal 
--- 

Even though web applications are _taking over the world_, I'm still a fan of
the native desktop application. They provide an authentic look/feel to the
operating system that makes me feel special. While most of the native apps I
use are developer tools, I also regularly use the following on both Windows 7
and Mac OS X:

- Evernote
- Rdio 
- Skype

It's been my opinion that the PC version has always had a better experience
when it came to native apps. However, I cannot say that for Evernote and Rdio.
These applications are much better from a usability standpoint on the Mac.
Skype is still an absolute disgrace on the Mac (comparatively to the PC
version).

So why is it that 66% (yes I know… I have mass amounts of data for my study)
of the applications I use have better Mac versions? As a programmer ten years
ago, you built applications for the platform you most commonly used. Has
anything changed? Probably… depending on how you look at it.

I would bet that programmers are still developing for and on the platform they
most commonly use day-to-day. They are developing on the system that makes
them feel special. However, I also guess many that were developing for the PC
ten years ago may also be developing for multiple platforms now, like the Mac.
Are they using a Mac at home too? Have they made a switch? Does your dog
really know what your name is?

Are you paying attention? No? Well let me bring it back full circle.

All of this doesn't much matter as in a few years we'll all be developing off
of machines that run in clouds that serve up rainbow lollypop browser versions
of an IDE so we can program in a 6th order language.

For craps sake man. Wake up.
