--- 
layout: post 
title: Letdowns and Lessons 
permalink: /post/19279287228/letdowns-and-lessons 
--- 

Today was an interesting day as it was the culmination of efforts to see my
favorite band, Radiohead, play live near Denver, Colorado.

Here was the build up for today:

- ask friend to go with me before tickets went on sale months ago (he ended up not being able to go) - **done**
- purchase tickets online when they went on sale months ago - **fail**
- purchase tickets online from resellers at over double the face value price - **fail**
- ask friend to drive 250 miles the same day of the concert, at the slim chance we could score onsite tickets - **done** (he ended up not being able to come, thank goodness)
- ask another friend to drive 10 miles the day of the concert, at the slim chance to score onsite scalper tickets - **done** (however, he could not go either)
- muster up enough will power to drive, the family minivan (with empty car child car seats and all) 30 minutes to try and score tickets from a scalper… solo style. - **done**
- arrive 60 minutes prior to showtime in order to roam around looking for a spare ticket - **done**
- pay $10 for parking, not knowing whether I would even get a ticket - **done**
- walk/stand around with numerous other desperate fans, hoping somebody might have an extra to sell - **done**
- stay 45 minutes past the start of the show, hoping something might turn up - **done**

There were various points in the day where I almost decided to stop trying.
But I didn't for some reason. In the end, did it get me anywhere? No. Not
exactly.

While I did not get to see Radiohead (the original goal), a reoccurring life
lesson was brilliantly played out for me today. We never know the outcome of
the efforts we put forth to achieve something. Try. Try. Try. Try. All of this
effort may still not produce any visible achievements (like in my case today).
For me, knowing that I tried is always better than not knowing what might have
been. Even if it was failure.
