--- 
layout: post 
title: The Flood
tags: boulderflood
--- 
It's been over a week since the *biblical* storms hit Colorado and
caused widespread flooding. Boulder saw its share of the action as well,
large in part because the city butts up to mountainous areas where
reservoirs, streams, creeks, etc. originate. People were affected in
different ways depending upon where they lived. For my family and I,
it's almost as if nothing happened. A grateful and all at once
unsettling feeling when within tens of feet from our house, massive
destruction occurred. 

The Monday and Tuesday before the floods took place I worked from home
as I recovered from a head cold. On Wednesday I returned to the downtown
office but not before meeting a good friend for coffee. The morning was
ominous as I was dressed in full rain gear while I biked to the coffee
shop. With less than a mile to ride I was completely soaked. It was more
than just a drizzle, it was like the air was completely saturated with
moisture. It rains hard in Boulder once in a while and this wasn't
necessarily a downpour that I was used to. The density was like nothing
I've experienced before. It was more like the raindrops were falling
closer together than they normally do. This is how I pictured it at
least. 

At lunch I remember walking on Pearl Street for a brief moment as I
grabbed something to eat. I took note that there was water running down
the walking mall. If I focused on a few stones on the ground, it was as
if somebody had left a garden hose on and the water seemed to pass the
point of forming puddles. 

The day ended with all of us saying goodbye fully expecting to see each
other the next day. The rain was wearing on us. Being from Colorado,
we're not really used to a day or two in a row where the sun is hidden. 
I think we were all optimistic that this would all clear up the next
day.

For the next two days things got kind of crazy. The flood horns
continued to sound throughout the nights (it's always at night when
things get creepy). These were usually an indication the local creeks
were rising fast and to climb to safety if you were in the vicinity. 

Our home was a few hundred feet in elevation to the main pathways of
these creeks, a fact I continually reminded my wife of. In her head she
feared that when these creeks flooded, all of Boulder was going under
water (an exaggeration of course). I remember awaking multiple times
during the night to peek outside and see what levels of water (if any)
were building up around the house. Not being able to see much I looked
for street lights that illuminate the gutters around the neighborhood
and used them to judge the levels.

The rest is history really. News articles, tweets, pictures can better
explain the details of what happened. This was my own personal
recollection that I wanted to remember as the whole experience was a
once in a lifetime one. At least I'm hoping so.

-----

My Ongoing Memorable Notes:

* Some [photos/videos](http://www.flickr.com/photos/saadsj/sets/72157635504820151/)
  I took while exploring.
* Twitter was an amazing resource to keep in tune with what was going
  on. 
* I remember thinking, this is a natural disaster and usually people
  get glued to their television sets while watching the news. I now
  pictured everyone glued to Twitter on their phones. I know I was.
* The Thursday morning after the first flood night I took a ride
  downtown to see what I could see. It was still raining and most of
  downtown seemed to be business as usual.
* Lots of land had been displaced.
* Manhole covers dislodged in our neighborhood with explosive streams
  of water gushing from them. 
* A good portion of North Boulder Park was under water. (1/2 block from
  our house).
* Many kids played in the flood waters of North Boulder Park, not
  realizing at first (or ever) that raw sewage most certainly existed.
* It became clear that water flows wherever land lets it. However land
  can violently move out of the way when the will of water is strong.
